Two techniques. A purely mechanical technique, to free up that space.
-there.
And secondly, a global diaphragm technique, which is excellent to do with
children, with babies, with anyone, to restore expansion.
And here, I'm guiding you with a biodynamic type of practice.
We're going to work on this esophageal and diaphragmatic junction.
There's still quite a lot of...
Nerve network, we still have important areas with the vagus trunk
which is here, you see.
And so we're still going to do it without forcing.
But at the same time, by releasing this area, you release an entire vagal area.
We can see here the right diaphragmatic portion and the left diaphragmatic portion.
We can clearly see here what is called the pleura,
which is here.
And then here, we have what is called a remnant, which
was at one point a valve, called the valve of Treitz and Leimer, which
are here.
Then here, we have an area called a small muscle, which
inserts on the diaphragm, and on the peritoneum,
and which forms what is called a periesophageal space.
an area of adaptability, of rebalancing in relation to
this diaphragmatic junction
that we find here, which will then continue with the muscle of Treitz, which is the
ligament
suspensory ligament of the duodenum, number 3 or 4, the
body often organizes itself in a spiral shape,
the spiral is something strong, there are many spirals in the body.
the embryo develops in a spiral movement.
We use spirals to have more strength.
Well, at that level, it's a spiral movement here.
Polarity, the spiral, in energetics,
uses spirals to go into the points.
I come to the level of the
junction, you see,
access to the part
the highest I can get
on the stomach.
And then I go down,
I make it go down.
I'm just going to ask you, it's a little test beforehand,
it's to turn your head to the left.
You feel the sensation.
Okay? You come back.
Turn your head to the right.
You come back, you turn your head to the left.
It's limited to the left.
Very often,
this area here,
prevents good neck rotation, so I'm going to put myself here and I'm going to let her
fall back towards me
you let yourself fall like that, all soft, all soft, all soft, all soft, I let her go again,
I'm strong, be confirmed, there, again, let your head go too, there,
all soft
and there I'm going to keep a point of support with my thumb, okay, all soft, I
let her go and I'm going to start going down here, I go down
I go a little deeper, I search, I go down, there, I have it, I go down, gently,
I listen to the tissues, there, for example here, you, I have to go a little like that, I
search, there, I go down, very gently, I observe her breathing, there,
on exhalation, I accumulate a little, I go down, okay, there, I hit
a little bit, it's a little hard, now, I'm going very gently, I take a good learning point,
then posterior, very straight, to be very stable, I keep my points here, if you
don't hurt yourself, she goes very gently, very gently, I keep a little credit because I have the
clothing, I go down again, there, hop, there, I'm going to ask her very gently to
straighten up, very gently, very gently, for now it's fine, stop,
you release, all of a sudden the hop comes back up with me, you let yourself go, there,
I hold.
You gain very slowly.
I hold, you go up.
Again.
Stop! You release.
There I gain.
You let yourself go.
Here we go, you go up.
Again.
You grow. Stop! You release.
You release.
and a brake.
I'm going to go a little further.
I go up and I go down again.
As it's painful,
it goes up towards the gallbladder.
Yes, it's working.
You go up very slowly, it grows.
There, it grows, there.
And up to there.
I do that.
I take the part
posterior here, between both hands.
I test it backwards.
Let yourself go, really relax, please.
There, great.
Is it okay, it doesn't hurt too much, the gallbladder like that by itself?
Do you feel the body or not?
There, it's coming, did you feel it?
Then it opens at the level of the gallbladder.
There, it just passed there.
There, hop, I accompany.
There, very good.
Did you feel the "pfff"?
You're looking for posterior support.
And we put it back, there you turn your head.
In this diaphragmatic problem, I explained to you that there was this retro-cavity of the
omenta.
Do you remember that?
The retro-cavity of the omenta.
There were these esophageal insertions, etc.
And there, we're going to do a technique where we're going to go towards...
Don't forget that to have...
Remember the ribs, the importance of the ribs with this diaphragm.
There is a significant concentration at this level.
Well, it's a very simple technique.
We're going to come to where the hole is.
You see a small hole, there.
And there, I come here and I place my hand flat, like this.
And I go towards the junction, towards the ribs at the level of 7, 8, 9,
there.
You see, something like that.
I slide my hand here underneath.
And I place it, I really put it flat.
Then I come with my hand here, like this.
And there, I release.
I release like that.
I do like that.
You see?
There, I have a small lever arm.
And this is a really important area.
It's an important crossroads of tension.
We can release.
It will release the entire junction
It will also release the entire area
of Treitz's muscle, etc.
And especially this relationship.
And there, she will feel, now,
I'm going to focus more on another sensation, you see.
I'm going to look at the whole picture.
There, I'm touching the whole body, now.
You have the retro-gastric pouch which is very important to mobilize.
Often, ulcers are posterior and you have the retro-gastric pouch,
so the posterior space of the stomach,
which needs, in fact, to have this mobility to have good peristalsis.
to have good function, must be free.
If it's not free enough, it hasn't freed itself from the diaphragm.
The esophagus and stomach are the first to be in relation to the base of the skull.
And then they have this relationship with the posterior mesogastrium,
with the aorta and the left branches.
It gives us the heat that rises and then goes down again.
I'm going to enter now into another level, this is when I enter into the force of embryonic
development, into the power, I observe the breathing, there I
know where she is, I wait for the door.
There, I just passed.
I don't know if you'll be able to perceive a difference.
When I put myself on the zone A plane, there is an immediate facial work,
I want
to give more space between the diaphragm and the pulmonary area,
as if I was
brought to descend.
At the same time, it must be known that on a peritoneal plane, of
the organization of the peritoneum, I am on the first point of support of the peritoneum.
That means that the left colic angle is the first fixed point of the
overall development of the peritoneum.
So it's the first point of support.
I'm going to put myself on that support point now, and I'm going to put myself on the point of
mobility.
The most mobile point.
it's at the cecum level. It's the last one to be put in place. So here
I have a cecum,
to see a little how it is. Support point. And
between my two hands, I have the entire axis of rotation,
all the movements of the colic frame that have settled like
that. And the diaphragm,
it works on that. And within that, I have all the spaces of the type...
the falciform ligament, the greater omentum, then
you can choose, the body chooses for you, a
work.
So here I can say that there is a small tension on the falciform ligament,
rather its right leaflet,
with sometimes
the expression
of a
gentle anger
which is there, which is empty
it's as if
She feels her posterior support point much more, and at the same time, a release here, a small
support.
And at the same time here, there, it's a work that is done in synchronicity
on her tentorium,
on her falx cerebri, at the level of the crista galli.
We're going to work on the sinus, on the sinus up
high.
We're going to open, there, her anger
is expressing itself for me, that's my journey, her anger
was linked to an inability at some point to express herself.
It can be in the 7-8 years.
That's where the tissue takes me.
It might be cleared up a bit.
Something she couldn't say, or wanted to say, but didn't say.
you grasped the protocol between when you entered biodynamics and before.
I focused on the whole, and then I entered another,
I left the thoracic breathing, I entered the space,
and I left it open, and then the body guided me,
it brought me to two points of support, then it moved,
and then flashes appeared to me about tensions,
and since I know all the synchronisms well, I went for infractions.
I felt points and I let myself go in my speech.
It was the moment you started the globality until the moment you looked for the door that opened.
In the process you described to us this morning, before that...
I'm going to give you the key, but I'm giving it to you in an initiatory way.
Okay.
I dive into the water.
I listen to the movement.
I feel the movement.
I'm looking for balance.
Once I have found the balance point, I will listen behind the
silence.
Before we start, let's talk a little about what you felt from the other approach.
When I gave the word and I had the impression that it was received,
I perceived many cells that started to receive and
to exchange all of a sudden.
And it was when you said, there, it's good.
I told myself that was it.
And that's good, when all the cells clink together.
A somewhat similar sensation, likewise, when I said the word.
There was really a cellular response, of the
tissues.
It's called an ignition.
So here, the approach is that we're going to take the diaphragm,
as we saw with the costopleural-pulmonary recess, by the way.
We're going to give that space to the diaphragm.
but there are mistakes that we must not make in the position of the hands.
I must have a fairly equitable sensation between my hands.
The mistake not to make here is to press like that, to press on the head.
So that's really in the long run, I can say, it's true.
Have good support on your elbows, and then you have to imagine that you're eating garlic.
And you take the right space, it's really important to take a good space.
In this practice, I will guide you into a meditative state.
I don't want to here. Now, I'm just going to put you in position.
And you, you just try a little to...
You define a little your feeling of the position like that.
A very light touch, with a lot of warmth,
which is very global and finally, I have the
impression that it's just at the foot.
At the same time, I really have this feeling that I'm taking this micro-crystalline field.
All this stuff, this little network, you have cells,
and on these cells, you have receptors.
It makes a whole huge field.
For example, the largest place of concentration of information of a glyco-
calyx field,
is at the level of the second duodenum.
It's the most informed part of the intestine.
And then it goes all over the body, it's like a field that encompasses everything, it allows you to
get in touch, you see, I put myself in this field, I
tell you in a meditation.